No, I'm not sorry that I served in Vietnam. I'm
proud that I served in Vietnam. I don't have any
regrets about my personal service in Vietnam.
Just looking back
at 15 or 20 years ago, I wish that it could have been
handled maybe differently than it was at the time.
Do you think we did anything right in Vietnam?
I started to say that we may have very, very good
withdraw from Vietnam, but I'm not sure I think
that was almost kind of botched.
I don't know. I'm not sure I can answer that we we did
anything that was of any value in Vietnam. We set
out to preserve the government of South Vietnam,
that we didn't do that. If we set out to show the
world that the United States is a military power to
be reckoned with, we didn't do that. I think we
tarnished our military image. I think we
tarnished our worldwide image
by making the decision to be there and not
accomplishing whatever purposes we thought we
were there for. We probably really didn't do
anything right in Vietnam. What was it like coming
home?
Well, it was a very joyful experience. As I recall,
only a few days before I left Vietnam, a regular
dinner that we had in our unit for people,
newcomers and people that were leaving. I got to
make a farewell address, and I told the gathering
that I was leaving Vietnam with mixed emotions,
joy and happiness. So that's kind of the way I felt
about coming home. I was glad to be home. I know when
we landed at Travis Air Force Base, the entire
plane broke into cheers and applause. So I was glad
to be home. I had missed my family. I was glad to be
back to see them. What was the biggest adjustment?
Probably
changing my language from military language back
to acceptable civilian language. And
I guess adjusting to a wife and a daughter, back
living with them. That's probably about the only
thing I can think of. It's kind of very different
living with the guys than with the family. Well, I
really, it is, and I, you know, I lived alone. I had
my own room. It was just a room, but just to change a
little bit on a lifestyle that was a little
restrained and that I didn't have a lot of freedom
of movement, but not living with somebody daily,
not really having a... responsibility for a wife
and a child. Even though I did have their
responsibility, I didn't have daily contact with
them to have their responsibility. How often did
you, did you receive mail or could you call or what
contact did you have with home? I had, I probably
have a couple of bushel baskets full of letters
around here somewhere that Linda wrote me almost
daily and And I wrote her almost daily. We sent
tapes back and forth to each other. I got to talk to
her on the telephone
probably
five or six times through the, I don't know what
they called it, but it was a radio connect up where I
could get on the radio kind of ham operators type
thing and we could connect up with a ham operator at
Fort Bliss in El Paso and then he would call Linda on
the phone and I could talk to her that way and then I
think on three occasions twice I went into into
Saigon into the
it was the USO club in Saigon and they had a
telephone that I could call long distance and talk
to her just like a long distance telephone call and
I did that twice I think and then on Christmas Eve I
got to call her from the base just on a regular long
distance hookup so I talked to her occasionally
and we wrote a lot And she sent me lots of care
packages.
When you came home, how were you welcomed by people
outside your family? Oh, I think I was well
received by the people
outside of my family, as well as in my family. Most
of the folks in this part of the world were not war
protesters. They were not out burning their draft
cards or the United States, their American flag.
So, you know, I think they looked on me as somebody
who served my country and did my job and didn't
think that I was a murderer or a scoundrel or
whatever. Looking back, what was the worst part of
the war for you? The separation from my family.
I think that was it. What about the best?
I've got some pretty good friends that I made when I
was in Vietnam. I don't see a lot now, but we were
very close. So I think I made some awfully good
friends. You can't beat coming home. It's been the
best thing. I made some very good friends when I was
over there. Do you think the friendships in war are
much closer than at a war? I mean, besides family
bonds. I think that's probably true of people that
served in World War II and in World War I more so than
it is of people that served in Vietnam.
understanding that I do not serve in a combat
situation and I suspect that bonds between people
that serve in combat become a lot closer than
people that serve in a rear area. If there was such a
thing as a rear area in Vietnam.
I would say that they do have strong bonds But it's
almost going to be, in my opinion, tied to the level
of danger or risk that they're exposed to is to how
close those bonds are. Or how estranged, if that's
the proper word, they would be. I would think that
you could have love-hate relationships
depending on the interaction between the people
in a stress situation. Mm-hmm. Kind of sometimes
you're too close to... That's right. Too close to
people. You said that you officed with someone
from Civil Affairs. That's right. What did you
learn about the Civil Affairs operations?
Mainly the Civil Affairs was an operation that I
saw. It was an operation to educate, the
Vietnamese to communicate and interact with the
Vietnamese to basically try to help them adjust to
and adapt to the presence of the United States
military in Vietnam. It was an effort to win them
over to the side of the United States by education
and involvement, communication, participation
in their daily lives, aid in medical, farming,
that type of aid. So it was an education and an
assistance program. How effective do you think it
was?
It'd be purely a guess on my part. I never really saw
it on the level out in the field where they were
dealing with those folks. I think it had some good
effects, but it's probably like any,
like I would probably feel if the Germans or the
Russians or anyone were to invade the United
States and then start trying to give me propaganda
to tell me how I ought to like to have them over here.
So I think it probably was effective for some, but
not effective for everyone. But it's a process I
think you have to do. Did you ever have to deal with
any incidents between Vietnamese and Americans?
In cases? No. Well, no.
I did not handle any files where we had any
Vietnamese nationals involved.
I can recall that now. I wasn't involved in
anything similar to the Cali incident or the Mila
incident or anything like that. Those types of
things were handled at the general court martial
level. And there were some handled in the long bin,
which is right where I was. But that was all at the
general quarters level. Well, there were some
handled at the two field force level, too. But I
didn't handle any of them. I had no direct
involvement with them. Do you think, because you
have such a short tour duty, did that affect any of
the legal operations? I mean, did they just bring
one lighter in and one out? Yeah, I don't think it
did.
Most of the people that came into Vietnam in the
legal area were already experienced from a
stateside assignment or assignment in Europe. So
they, it was a very easy transition.
Did you see it, I guess, harming any other
positions?
I didn't, not that I can say that I saw it harming any
other positions. I don't really think that
they had any problem making those transitions.
Somebody answer the phone.
That'll look great on your tape. No, I don't think
they had any problems just because of the short
tourism duty. But you had the same commander,
though, Colonel? Yes. He got there just about a few
months before I did, and we were on the same plane
going home. He let the same guy in. Do you ever see
him? No, I haven't seen him since we got off the
plane at Travis Air Force Base.
Okay. Summing up, is there anything else you want
to add? No, I don't know. I can't think of anything.
I can't think of anything.